![W3C Logo](https://www.w3.org/Icons/w3c_home)
# Meeting: Digital Publishing Interest Group Teleconference
**Date:** 23 January 2017

See also the [Agenda]($headers.agenda) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2017/01/23-dpub-irc.txt)
## Attendees
**Present:** Leonard, ivan, George, Hadrien, dauwhe, Heather_Flanagan, Deborah_Kaplan, garth, Chris_Maden, NickRuffilo, Tim_Cole, rick, Bill_Kasdorf, Rick_Johnson, duga, astearns, laudrain, Vlad, vlad, Vagner_Br

**Regrets:** Daniel, Romain, Peter, Karen

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Garth

**Scribe(s):** nickruffilo, dauwhe
## Content:

---


> *ivan*: ivan has changed the topic to: Agenda call 2017-01-23: CADExNBPO8Rv2Mg7ATJO55vRNKm8+KVc-R-_KrsBt2Om5OriBqQ@mail.gmail.com

> *ivan*: ivan has changed the topic to: Agenda call 2017-01-23: http://www.w3.org/mid/CADExNBPO8Rv2Mg7ATJO55vRNKm8+KVc-R-_KrsBt2Om5OriBqQ@mail.gmail.com

> *dauwhe*: I'll scribe later

**Garth:** "We have two new members.  They don't seem to be on the call at the moment, but if they show up, we can have them introduce themselves."
  "Ivan, the other item you mentioned is about having members of the IG vote on the annotation spec."

> *ivan*: https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/webannopr/

**Ivan:** "Actually, the co-chair of the group is on the call.  The annotations works has practically finished.  We published the proposed publications.  Now W3C members should vote if they are OK with this or not.  The voting form is linked above.  If you are an AC rep, you can take care of it yourself, otherwise you need to nag your AC rep to do it for you.  There are a number of people on the call


**Tim:** "The recommendations are pretty much what we've discussed a few months back - no major revisions.  We just wanted to make you aware that we're finishing up."


**Garth:** "Folks should consider themselves aware of voting.  Lets get into the agenda.  Brief update of the happenings on the IDPF merger.  There was an open meeting of interested parties at Digital Book World (DBW) last week.  Myself and Karen, Bill McCoy, George K, we discussed then had an open mic period.  There was some chime in.  There was a committee to save the IDPF, so it was entertaining


**Garth:** "Yes, the rest of the IDPF board was also available."


**George:** "If anyone is involved and hasn't signed their IP release, please do so."


**Heather:** "Is there a good place to point people to explaining what is happening?"


**Garth:** "IDPF.org is probably the best.  There are some that are member-only though."


**Bill:** "Once it's official there will be a press release that can be pointed to."


**Garth:** "Ivan, You've made some updates to the draft charter.  Would you like to discuss those?"


**Ivan:** "I did some changes.  There are three things that are worth discussing.  The first is more complex - I added a section on goal/scope which is more-or-less what's in the current document.  Because there are discussions going on around those, under the heading PWP, I would think we should do it together.  With the only comment is that whatever is in the charter should be consistent with
  "I havent' merged it yet as we wasnt to make sure we have consensus.  I've looking to George/Charles if they are here, in the previous version there was no mention on possible additional work around WCAG.  I know we published a note on our additional features, but it's not clear to me where the additional work will happen.  I think it will happen in the relevant WCAG working group and not  "These are the three changes.  The goals should be discussed separately."

**Garth:** "The vast amount of additional text should be matching the PWP document, which was roled into the drafty-charter.  It seems to me that committing those and having this be the tip and continuing discussion off that.  Are you OK doing that if there are no objections here?"


> *George*: +q

**Ivan:** "I will keep that up to date.  the PWP document should be stable and at an equilibrium point."


**Garth:** "You are reticent to...  You have the new draft and scope.  Are you reticent to commit those and make them the active charter?"


**Ivan:** "It is already in the main branch.  The only thing I did not push in to the main branch are some of the changes I made related to the DPUB ARIA."


**Garth:** "OK - i looked friday and didn't see those..  OK, thanks.  Any further discussion?"


**George:** "Yes, we've been able to add to the WCAG 2.1 elements.  Digital publishing is in scope, which is great.  A reminder that accessibility has now been integrated horizontally across W3C groups.  Our working group moving forward should have an accessibility view to producing our recommendations."


**Ivan:** "To make it specific, what I did was to add an entry to the coordination section according to WCAG, to say that the WCAG group is responsible for their developments, but we should work together with them to help build."


**garth:** "Next on the agenda, the Leonard & Nick show.  There have been some homework in making this cleaner.  Then feel free to head into the other discussion."


**Ivan:** "Vagner - our new member, has joined in IRC.  if you're on the call, please say hello"


> *leonardr*: PR for my proposed changes

> *leonardr*: https://github.com/w3c/dpub-pwp/pull/39/commits/055b7453e1442be11c25150234e98d947f19eaf6

**Leonard:** "(Link posted to the pull request) I went through the entire document to understand it.  I had a bunch of other questions, but they are not things I've made changes to at this time.


> *garth*: Vagner:

> *garth*: JOIN WEBEX MEETING https://mit.webex.com/mit/j.php?MTID=m67b1f4daec6afaa10a98310469cdd45c Meeting number (access code): 647 199 851 Meeting password: Please obtain your meeting password from your host.   JOIN FROM A VIDEO SYSTEM OR APPLICATION Dial sip:647199851@mit.webex.com   JOIN BY PHONE +1-617-324-0000 US Toll Number

**Leonard:** "One thing I've done is put an actual definition under the terms section - for locators.  So we explain what it is, and why it may not be just a simple URL.  "


**Garth:** "It's a good elevator pitch for locators."


**Leonard:** "There was a paragraph in Web Publications that talked about state independent locators, things we didn't finalize on, so I modified it to say that locators needed to be resolved regardless of the state of the PWP.  I removed references to locators that weren't necessary.  I tried to keep it very high level at this point.  I left in the reference - there's still one about hierarchy and


**Leonard:** "I wanted to change everything from PWP to WP.  Locators talk about all Web Publications, and not necessarily Packaged ones."


**leonardr:** in terms of locators, that was the big piece of work
 I left other changes for email discussionss any questions?

**garth:** thanks for the effort
 the queue is empty. Is silence consent?

**ivan:** one thing...
 I'm overall happy with changes it looks like you already made some changes in the introduction which are still in discussion it might be better to separate those issues

**leonardr:** that's fine
 I'll put those back to "musts"

**ivan:** I propose you merge the whole thing


**garth:** that sounds good
 do we want to discuss the musts and shoulds now?

> *HeatherF*: fwiw, I prefer email

**ivan:** there is one more thing... do you want to discuss the business group and CG charter here?


> *HeatherF*: Easier to track and think about it, and get more folks involved who couldn't be on the call

**garth:** OK
 the last agenda item was another request to review BG and CG charter assuming the merger completes this week the BG charter is very important since that group will have substantial input on WG charter the group could be kicked off next week and there could be a F2F meeting of BG on March 13 but that's too late for substantive discussion of WG charter we need to nail down BG charter as soon as possible the in-person meeting would be before London Book Fair there were requests on the ML to review both charters

> *George*: +q

**garth:** comment in google docs or respond to the email thread


**George:** the first thing the BG would do is complete the publishing business group charter and methods of working
 the draft as is is not fixed in stone we just want it to be sufficient for us to get started

**garth:** the BG will be less technical
 this group continues to have responsibility for tech details of the BG charter

**leonardr:** since we're talking about dates
 do we want to start a discussion of a WG f2f?

**garth:** a F2F kickoff of DPUB WG makes sense
 I think it will be chartered in April Ivan thinks I'm optimistic so meeting would be late spring/early summer? do we have proposals for a location? we should certainly consider this

**leonardr:** I have a suggestion


> *ivan*: +1 NYC

**leonardr:** in NYC, 'cause Tzviya won't be able to travel
 Adobe has space in NYC and is willing to host

**garth:** google also has space, but Adobe sounds good
 and the publishing community is centered there

> *VST_Rick*: q

**ivan:** we need to take into account a rule that we need 2 months notice for a F2F meeting
 if the WG really starts in April, then a F2F in NYC in June works if we are in position of sending a charter for vote at end of February then that can work

> *leonardr*: proposes week of June 19th

**ivan:** if not, if it goes to the AC later, we might be able to add to charter or announcement that we plan to have a f2f
 but we need to be careful 2 months is usually needed for people to plan in June, there is also the BEA meeting (actually end of May) would it be good to co-locate?

**garth:** you mentioned June... is May too early? Before BEA?
 we couldn't announce before charter?

> *leonardr*: Week of May 29th is not good for Tzviya or myself (Jewish holiday that week)

**ivan:** the clean thing is charter is done, ac votes, we start in april, then JUne is OK
 however, having a F2F at TPAC is also very important we will have to sync with other WGs TPAC is Nov 6-10 near SFO

> *leonardr*: Hyatt Regency SF

> *garth*: Perhaps before (or after) BEA makes sense (per Ivan and others)

**ivan:** the question is, whether financially speaking we expect the WG to have 2 F2F during the year
 there may be problems with that

**garth:** travel-type expenses?


**ivan:** yes, like me


> *leonardr*: thanks @dauwhe for the plug...

**garth:** May/June then November is nice


> *George*: +q+q

**VST_Rick:** many of us will be at BEA in NYC
 I would encourage doing something while we're there rather than the following week

**leonardr:** BEA overlaps with a major Jewish holiday
 and the holiday is in the middle of the week

> *ivan*: q=

**leonardr:** week before or week after are fine


**garth:** we'll have some time to nail this down


**George:** one of the comments at DBW is that people want to participate remotely
 remote participation is highly desirable for a F2F I said I supported that

> *leonardr*: no problem - we have great AV at the site

**garth:** that's one thing that gets easier if Google or Adobe or such hosts
 any more discussion of meetings? I like the idea of F2F in May/June, and one in November, that feels like we're moving quickly, which is good

> *leonardr*: @vagner - yes, that's the one

**ivan:** one more thing... if we want the 1st of April for WG, then I need more comments on Charter!
 an issue a day :) the charter needs a lot of work before sending it to the AC

**garth:** and look at Ivan's updates from last week


**dauwhe:** I have some concerns about how the BG will operate in the context of the W3C process


**garth:** something like "approving" specs from the CG, like EPUB 3.1.x
 the other unusual thing is input over chartering the WG and leadership but there would no special input on the output of the WG, that would be through normal w3c processes

**George:** I think the BG would want to gather it's members and encourage review and comment on the WG
 and help and assist in getting proper review throughout the industry of the spec and I think that's in keeping with W3C process getting wide review would be a big piece of what we do

**garth:** was that helpful?


**dauwhe:** yes


**ivan:** the question is, is this really clear in the BG charter?


**dauwhe:** I just want expectations to match what's in the charter


**garth:** it would be good to posit those to Karen/BillM


**George:** if you could resend that comment I'd appreciate


**garth:** Alrighty then
 Ivan and I will meet Wednesday to work on the agenda, if you have ideas for agenda you can use the email list

**dauwhe:** asking group for agenda items is a good thing


**leonardr:** some of my email issues could be good agenda items


**garth:** if we don't resolve those issues on the list, we can add to agenda


**ivan:** leonard, when we get more focused on the email, can you separate them into github issues


> *leonardr*: +1 - will create issues!

**garth:** there is still no one on the queue, so we get five minutes back. Have a good week!
